Data Base v/s File System
Organised collection of interrelated data of an enterprise . We can perform operations like insert,delete,search,sort.
File system can easily replaced .
Failure of Files:
Data Redundancy and in-consistency.
Difficulty in accesing the data: Quries can be answered easily.
Data Isolation. No miss match of data types.
Integrity Constraints .
Atomicity problems.Partial execution is not possible in DBMS.
Concurrently access anomalies.
Security.

Data Abstraction
Levels: Physical,Logical,View:
Physical:Lowest level, Describes how data is stored .Explains complex data structure utilised in details.
Logical: Describes what data is to be stored in the database, and what relationship between the data .Descibes entire database in terms of small number of relatively simpler structures
View: Describes only part of entire database to the respective level.Doesnt allow a single user to view everything.

Instances and schemes:
Instances:At any instance of time the content of the database .
Schemes:Logical description of programme  is algorithm. llly logical description of the database is Schema
Physical Schema: Descibes the database design at physical level
Logical Schema: Descibes the database design at Logical level.

Physical Data independence: If application programme doesnt depend on the physical schema and thhus need not be rewritten if the physical leve; chnages .then it is called PDI.

Data Basse user and User Interface:
Naive User: Using database with a application layer.And the application programme has a backend programme which uses the Database.
Application Programmer:They are the one who write the programme for Database. They create the database.
Sophisticated:They can interact with database directly without GUI or any other need. They need to have Knowledge about Query programmes etc.
Special : They Use the database for a certain type of specific application.

Data Base Administrator:
Scehma Description:Writes description DDL for the Schema.
Storage structure and access method format:
Schema and physical-organisation modification:alteration in felids additions of feilds in table
Granting of Authorisation of Database:
Routime maintainenace :
Free Storage Managemnet, Checking of System performance ex.Checking qwether the system runs in Required time.


Data Model
Conceptual tool ,which descibing data,data relationships, meaning of data, scementic of data and consistency of those tool.
Relational Model:Collection of tables to represent both data and the relationships among those data.
ER Model:Entity has a permanent existance . It has attributes.
Object Based Data Model:ER model extended with Encapsulation ,methods and object identity
Semi-structured Data Model:Permits the specificaion pf data where individual data items of the same typwe may have different set of attributes .Extensible Markup Language.

Database Languages:

Data Manupilation Lang:DML
Accessing and manupulating data.
>Select:To read records into table
>Insert:To insert records into table
>Delete:Delete all the records from the table
>Update:Update Data in table 
Types Procedural,Non Procedural.
Procedural:deals what-has to be done and how-how can it be executed.
Non-Procedural:What -We need to write what shoyld be done in the particular Syntax.

Data Defination Language: DDL:
Create:To create a dataabse instance 
ALter:To alter a dataabse instance 
Drop:To drop a dataabse instance 
Trunc:To delete a dataabse instance 
Rename:To rename a dataabse instance 

Data COntrol Lang: DCL
Granting acess to the user or Revoke access from user .
Revoke:			 Grant:
